Assignment_11 


Strings in Java

 1.What is a String in Java ? 
→String it refers to an Object in java present in package called java.lang.String. String refers to collection of characters.
Example : 
     String s= "sachin"; 
      System.out.println(s); //sachin
String s =new String("sachin");
System.out.println(s); //sachin
* In java String object is by default immutable,meaning once the object is created we cannot change the value of the object, if we try to change then those changes will be
reflected on the new object not on the existing object.  
Example : 
String s= "sachin";
System.out.println(s); //sachin
s.concat("tendulkar"); //(new object got created with modification so immutable) 
System.out.println(s);// sachin
Note:
String s1 =new String("sachin");
In this case 2 objects will be created one in the heap and the other one in the String Constant Pool, the reference will always point to Heap.


 2.Type of String in Java are ?
→Types of String
In java Strings are classified into 2 type ,
1.Mutable String
2.Immutable String
Mutable String :
Once if we create a String, on that String if we try to perform any operation and if those changes get reflected in the same object then such strings are called “Mutable String”.
Example: StringBuffer, StringBuilder
Immutable String :
Once if we create a String, on that String if we try to perform any operation then those changes won’t be reflected in the same object, rather a new object will be created.Such type of String is called as “Immutable String”.
Example: String


 3.In how many ways can you create string objects in Java ? 
→You can create a String by −
Step 1 − Assigning a string value wrapped in " " to a String type variable.
String message = “Gaurav”;
Step 2 − Creating an object of the String class using the new keyword by passing the string value as a parameter of its constructor.
String message = new String (“Gaurav”);
Step 3 − Passing a character array to the String constructor.
char arr[] = {'H','e','l','l','o'};
String message = new String(arr);


 4.What is a String constant pool ? 
→ The Java string constant pool is an area in heap memory where Java stores literal string values. The heap is an area of memory used for run-time operations. When a new variable is created and given a value, Java checks to see if that exact value exists in the pool.


 5.What do you mean by mutable and immutable objects ? 
→Mutable String :
Once if we create a String, on that String if we try to perform any operation and if those changes get reflected in the same object then such strings are called “Mutable String”.
   * Example: StringBuffer, StringBuilder


   * Immutable String :
Once if we create a String, on that String if we try to perform any operation then those changes won’t be reflected in the same object, rather a new object will be created.Such type of String is called as “Immutable String”.
   * Example: String


 6.Where exactly in the String constant pool located in the memory? 
→The Java String Pool is stored in the Heap space.